okay so for a few minutes what I wanted
to talk about and and um you'll see some
of these slides if you came to the
opener with David sacks yesterday but I
want to go deeper
um especially because maybe me and David
have a slightly different perspective on
this and um
and uh Nick from Mark chart Mogul did a
little thing where he called this a
cautious recovery so I'm going to steal
that I think we're absolutely in a
cautious recovery in SAS and I think
folks should be modestly bullish today
this is what I think and I'll show you
I'll show you just a few examples but
what I think is everyone has different
terms I don't think we went through any
recession I certainly don't think we
went through a downturn I mean
unemployment in this economy is like 2.8
percent right this is the weirdest
downturn in recession in the world if uh
if if the economy is fully employed
um I think we had a shock I just call it
a shock we just had a shock we everyone
spent way too much money in 2021 the
markets were crazy buyers were crazy and
there had to be a shock you know we saw
the biggest with zoom which went from
one to four billion in one year Shopify
almost did the same thing it couldn't go
1 4 16 64. 128 256. it couldn't happen
there had to be a shock
um and I think we're done fun
um and a few things that are happening
that I want to chat about
um you know on the B2B side clavio as
you know I think last week filed for the
first great SAS IPO since December 2021
since December 2021. they're at 650
million in ARR I think growing almost 60
percent and they're profitable and
that's about as good as it gets and they
may go public as soon as next week or
the week after so we'll dig into this
but there's been almost a 24-month
drought Gap without any IPOs once they
start rolling in we're kind of over the
shock right again the economy overall is
good and then a few things I put on the
right you know there were lots of both
people and app layoffs um I want to talk
about them both but
I think they're both over I think
they're both over and they're different
the app and people layoffs and the app
playoffs I think were more brutal and
that I think is what a lot of folks went
through and if you haven't worked in a
big
Fortune 500 company or tech company as a
VP as I have at least at least for a
little more than a year you've never
seen this but what happens in the big
companies like it's not like every
almost our economy has been going strong
but everyone got more conservative in
2022 every big company cut back in I.T
cut back and spend they they overreacted
which we'll chat about and what happens
is all the VPS get together in a room
I've been there okay and they do it with
people and they do it with apps and they
get together and they go around the
table and they say you got to get rid of
one okay you got to get what app are you
not really using and the reality is a
lot of there was a lot of explosion
especially in sales and marketing but in
HR and other categories that people
bought a lot of stuff in 2021 to grow go
go grow and they went around the table
and some of those got cut it just
happened
um the same thing happens with people
it's not like most of our end customers
didn't have great years in 2022 they did
but everyone tightened the belt they
went around the room and they laid off
some people Salesforce did layoffs
almost ever every I'll talk about social
schools are here almost every leader did
some layoffs a pub big public company
four percent five percent six percent
they did it to get fit which we'll talk
about they did layoffs to get more
efficient okay everyone did let the
people layoffs and everyone did app
layoffs and they're all done they're all
done I don't know any big companies that
are sitting around in September of 2023
saying we're gonna do another round of
app layoffs okay it's not happening
Salesforce just said they're not going
to do I put it up here they just said
this week they're not going to do any
more layoffs and they're hiring for
critical roles samsara um the chief
product officer here was yesterday we'll
talk about them they just in their
earnings last week they said they don't
have enough sales capacity now they're
hiring sales people as as fast as they
can it's all coming back it will never
be like 2021 but we are over outside of
spot issues for the leaders for the
public leaders the successful ones were
over the app and people layoffs
and hiring at least is slowly resuming
so net net I don't know what the next 12
months will look like but I'll bet you
dollars to Donuts it's better than the
last 12 if for many of you if you're in
an impacted category if things were hard
they may only be 10 better it may be 50
better 36.4 percent better but we're
done with this cycle of cuts and
efficiency which I wanna I wanna dig
into just a little bit more
um so here's two examples and I briefly
touched on these yesterday but I want to
dig into more and I picked I want to
pick a couple three different categories
categories that were heavily impacted
the last two years
um some that were slightly that were not
impacted at all and then some that were
modestly impacted and let's just slow
down a minute and look at a few charts
um that I borrowed from jam and ball
here what happened and I picked Zoom
info on the left and zoom on the right
why do I pick Zoom info
um I mean it's one of my hero companies
Henry is one of my hero CEOs basically
bootstrapped to a billion something in
Revenue profitable every year pretty
good one but Zoom info is a leader in
sales and marketing it's a public Pure
Play leader so we can look at Zoom info
and say hey if you're in sales and
marketing you're probably a little bit
like them if they're if they're if
they're booming you should be doing well
if they're struggling maybe you should
be struggling
um and what happened let's look at this
chart for new net new error new bookings
and you can see new bookings for them
peaked in Q2 of 22. that's kind of what
David chatted about last year like
things got tough at the end of 2021 but
it didn't really show up until mid-2022
so you can see it peaked and then boom
like all the way down and then q1 23 was
tough it was their first deceleration in
net new bookings but it bounced back it
bounced back and if you folks will have
different naders different low points
but for most folks in SAS and Cloud it
was the around sometime around the first
or second quarter of this year and
they've bounced off the bottom
so that's Zoom info you're probably like
Zoom info and again Zoom info isn't back
to the Go-Go days of 2021 but it's a lot
better than it was at kind of the bottom
of this shock uh earlier this year and
the one on the right is zoom and look
Zoom is crazy zoom zoom zoom never
intended to grow the way it did during
you know during that nasty bug that we
had it never intended to grow it grew
like crazy so it couldn't last and so
Zoom had the biggest overhang of all
Zoom was crazy before March 2020 because
it was almost the only product I knew
that sold single seat SAS that had over
100 nrr like that's crazy it doesn't
happen that way people love their zoom
and they didn't churn and they didn't go
but then everyone in the world bought
Zoom right every people started selling
Flowers and Things in yoga and things on
the internet that were not meant to be
done on the internet they were mentioned
in the real world so of course churn
peeked up and and zoom went and it kind
of peaked at this can't quite read it
3.6 churn which is actually not terrible
for SMB but it's a lot a lot higher than
none none no net churn and it's down
it's down to 3.2 it's still that's
normal but it's a pretty it's a pretty
big drop and then look what happened to
zoom zoom went from one to four billion
in Era in one year so it had to have it
had to have a hangover and it did and
you can see this hangover has lasted
quarter after quarter after quarter
again it bottomed in q1 of 2023 like 60
minus 617 deceleration but what happened
this last quarter it's the first quarter
Zoom has re-accelerated since in the
last 18 to 24 months now is it epic
again is zoom going to return to Triple
digit growth no it's too big it's too
mature but it is back Zoom info is back
and these are ones that are in these
impacted categories
um so then I just picked two more I
briefly touched on these yesterday but
it's more just a challenge to folks not
every category is impacted so I don't
think it's any recession or depression
or downturn there are areas that are
impacted there were app layoffs that
that really hurt a lot of individual
vendors but we are still this the US
economy is a global Powerhouse right now
unemployment is an all-time low
automobile sales still are close to all
time maybe we'll have issues with real
estate with interest rates and
everything but this economy is humming
so if you look at SAS companies that
sell to the real world that don't just
sell to other Tech
um in many cases they didn't miss a beat
I mean toast had a little bit of impact
but look at toast toast just had a
record quarter we had Iran the cocio of
Monday here you saw they had seat
contraction which a lot of us saw right
they didn't folks folks did they did see
some seat contraction but overall the
business did not miss a beat any of the
last quarters because Monday doesn't
sell Prime only 30 of Mondays to tack
for project management and serum 70 as
he said is to churches and real estate
and other normal businesses and so they
didn't miss a beat so it's it's not
everyone
and then the third one I just wanted to
show I call these somewhat impacted
categories I picked two that are
somewhat impacted and I picked samsara
which if you don't know uh I mean at a
at a specific level it automates Fleet
Management and more um it's it's a it's
a quiet but big category of vertical SAS
um and and it's interesting that you can
see it's a hot one we've written them up
at sastro since the beginning when
people didn't know about it we have the
chief product officer here yesterday but
you can see actually they hit their low
point a little earlier than we saw with
zoom and zoom info and others they hit
it actually in Q2 of 2022 where this
High Flyers growth sort of came down to
earth they stopped accelerating growth
but what happened the last four quarters
slow re-acceleration right and then I
picked just one more or two more
and then I'll try to summarize that OCTA
OCTA is it's you know it's a market
leader right in identity
um in app management and and so they're
kind of a derivative of everything
happening in cloud and SAS spend this is
a CIO purchase and what do you see well
it's not like OCTA bookings went to zero
their error didn't go to zero but it was
it did hit its biggest impact again q1
of 2023 and then boom boom q220 Q2 last
quarter but only by a smidge mind you
only by a smidge but their their highest
quarter in new bookings on record okay
highest quarter of new book is a record
just just past uh again that q22 was the
tail end of the of of of the good times
um showing up in numbers but they're
back now that that isn't like twice Q2
of 22. it's not like the best of times
uh or it's not the very best of times
but it is octa's best quarter ever okay
it doesn't mean that the annual growth
rate is the highest ever right because
we have the law of large numbers we'll
talk about that in a few minutes but
their best quarter ever samsara not back
to Q2 of 21 when the world was crazy but
clear slope to higher and higher new
booking so I call these folks somewhat
impacted somewhat impacted and then I
just picked one for fun you can watch
this but mongodb which is another one
you know they just had their best
quarter in six years they're just
rocking it right they're rocking it some
of their strongest Revenue growth
they've seen since IPO so somewhat
impacted right people you know you
know once you're running your app on a
database pretty hard to migrate off it's
pretty hard to start using the database
but you can somewhat manage your spend
you can try to manage workflows you can
try to slow the scale and deployment you
can do other things so saw that
saw folks trying to slow the pace
of spend and then they kind of saw it
end this last quarter so again it's
never going to be it's going to take 20
years to have a bubble like like we saw
in 2020 it will happen again but it's
going to take 20 years but times are
pretty good even if they don't feel like
it and if nothing else they're clearly
better for almost everyone uh than a
year ago
and then maybe just a couple ways to
look at this data backfield that's here
they surveyed all of their customers
it's just this is more of a look at
startups
um and you can squint here and you can
see that like Q2 was again it's a little
bit but the first re-acceleration
they've seen in the last five to six
quarters right and chart Morgan and
others have similar data it's not epic
it's not like Q2 2023 was like you know
2021 or but you can see the first turn
up in overall growth across all of their
customers so it ain't whatever whatever
data you look at whether it's startups
public companies that are heavily
impacted like a zoom
um somewhat impacted
um like the samsaras that we saw
everyone is coming off lows maybe we'll
crashly get in a quarter or two it's
possible maybe maybe the FED will raise
interest rates to 20 or 80 percent or
two thousand percent it could happen
maybe inflation will will reflate as
David alluded to yesterday maybe but I
think our core plans we have to assume
things are getting a smidge a smidge
better right and the last point just
talking about people because
there's so much it's so visceral
especially on LinkedIn and layoffs are
painful layoffs are tough uh they're
tough on all of us and I really think as
Founders we should do everything humanly
possible to have no non-performance
layoffs I mean we have recurring Revenue
you should be able to predict the next
quarter or two you should be a little
embarrassed if you have to laughs even
though a lot of us do go through it but
it's over and if you saw Iran from
Monday yesterday we I actually didn't
have this slide in the presentation I
thought this is the one I wanted to show
you was happening with Monday because
it's kind of what happened with so many
leaders is look they they hit headwinds
their NR went from epic to pretty good
okay just because seats didn't expand as
much so they just said you know what
we're just going to slow down hiring and
they actually did I think a a small
layoff and replace which is what a lot
of big tech companies did they might do
a three four five six percent layoff but
then they would hire that that those
same people back and end up at the same
number right and frankly a lot of those
layoffs were for underperformers and so
you can see Monday kind of did that and
they they grew head count fairly
aggressively from from 21 to 22 and then
Q4 of last year it actually dipped right
and they held it flat and then it
started to regrow and if you heard Iran
yesterday here say he said they're
probably going to add 25 head count this
year right so they're back to hiring
Salesforce just said they're back to
hiring but importantly what Iran said is
very telling Monday went from cash flow
negative to very cash flow positive in
five quarters it's crazy again they went
from something like negative 15 free
cash flow to positive 25 percent in five
quarters and I asked Iran you know
you're gonna are you gonna how much are
you gonna loosen the belt how much
you're going to go back to through the
middle because you got so lean they're
like well we're going to do everything
we can not to we're going to stay in an
efficient world and I think that is the
biggest theme I think the most important
tactical takeaway and this is just my
data and my opinion I think the most
important tactile takeaways I think
we're past that low of earlier this year
a lot of data points to it it points to
it in terms of Revenue growth it points
to in terms of hiring it points in terms
of app layoffs
but the meta question is what world are
we going back to how efficient a world
are you going back to
um and I just read a summary last night
that for the first time in many many
many years
um the average revenue per public SAS
company is over three hundred thousand
dollars okay so the average employee and
this is a critical ratio for efficiency
how much revenue per employee and in the
old days the really epic software
companies the adobe's the microsofts
could could approach a million because
you know you just wrote some code and
you know shipped it on a DVD or CD-ROM
or something and it got more expensive
but 300 000 is the most efficient all of
them have been in recent memory and this
is the meta question how efficient do we
have to be we've gotten used to certain
types of sales compensation we've gotten
used to certain levels of customer
success certain types of coverage
certain types of marketing spend I don't
think we will ever be able to go we'll
never be able to go back to 2021 the
question is will we even be able to go
back to 2019 or 2018
or will we need to be more efficient
going forward right this is the meta
question and we'll see we'll see
um and we'll see and I think there's two
conflicting Trends on the one hand
everyone's learned how to get more
efficient and I'll hit that before we
end all the public companies were people
that hey you you know we'll hold off on
profitability we don't need to Monday
grew so fast
if you if you heard around yesterday
when Iran came to the first his first
session in 2017 they were at seven
million error that was 2017. so this is
six years later they're at 700 million
error in six years they went from seven
to seven hundred if you burned a little
cash it wasn't the end of the world
they were efficient but they were never
epically efficient they were very they
were very tactical they had an
eight-month cack they were very
analytical but they didn't have to be
over and the Wall Street didn't care but
now they're super efficient Salesforce
is super efficient mongos will talk
about it so so where will we end up
being I think everyone's going to have
to work harder sell more
um close more for the same dollar the
same compensation the whatever or we may
have to part ways with folks on our team
that aren't efficient enough like we may
not be able to support those those some
of those mid-pack sales reps that never
get there I don't know but we probably
will never get that inefficient but
good times are coming back I really
think all the VCS are going to get
excited about clavio it's going to be a
monster IPO I think it'll trade over to
10 billion there's nothing not to like
about this company other than that is 70
dependent on Shopify you can read more
about it faster I think this will get
folks excited in just a couple weeks
and if you look at it I just put
together a partial list on saster but
clavio is epic but there's so many good
ones waiting to go public there's data
bricks there's stripe there's Gusto when
I put this I didn't know clavio would
file Rippling Greenhouse who's here so
many folks actually it's so funny so
many folks from the first saster annual
that were little startups we had a panel
of algolia talk disc greenhouse and I
think sales off they're all at 200
million um and at least three of them I
think will IPO next year so there's
going to be a wave of them and what
folks don't realize uh what investors
know that are decent investors is yeah
there's some folks that are really
struggling there's some fail to corn
some crash of corn some dead acorns but
there are a ton of SAS companies at 200
million or they are more growing 30 or
higher that means you're ready to IPO as
soon as the markets are open they're
ready they're ready the gain site Al
Golia talked to us Greenhouse data IQ
Checker Rippling deal Brax Navarre who's
here they're all ready to IPO it's just
a timing question and if clavio is going
to do well and then they're not going to
rush in an hour but that's why I've said
for a while the back half of 2024 should
just be full of good IPOs these are all
good companies these are not failicorns
these are all folks who got north of 200
with good growth um most of them are
probably cash flow positive today so
that will be bullish for the ecosystem
with one with one big caveat
this is really the X Factor I guess it's
inflation and I guess it's zerp and burp
and derp and warp but multiples are not
great in the public markets they're not
great we are not going back to 20x40x
air in fact they're a little bit worse
than they were four or five or six
months ago so be thoughtful be humble
about your valuations be humble about
your Capital raises because actually
value multiples are the one hitch
there's great companies waiting to go
IPO we're bouncing off the bottom
customers are buying more maybe it's in
maybe it's interest rates maybe it's
whatever I'm not I'm no true Economist
but multiples are still mediocre and
that's the quiet drag that's going to
make a lot of things harder your Venture
is going to remain tougher than it was
um later out rounds will keep getting
harder and harder and these apos will
look great but if you if you're at 200
million in AR growing 30 in your IPO and
you're worth a billion and a half or
less than two billion that's amazing but
it's not quite it doesn't really justify
unicorns right so this is the one only
thing I'm I'm worried about is that
valuations remain low we are seeing
unicorns back Apollos like the first
real SAS data one that's that's had a
true honest non-insider billion dollar
round that I know so that's a good sign
for the ecosystem for this clavio-led
Resurgence AI is obviously Beyond on
fire as you can see on all the
Salesforce sessions today Salesforce is
like done all of them as you can see
billions and billions Salesforce
Ventures so AI is back but it's a bit of
a it's a bit of an outlier it's a bit
confusing but the Apollos is a good sign
so unicorns are back but it's it's
cautious other than AI right so again
this I stole from chart Mogul it's it's
a cautious recovery this is what they
saw themselves that it's actually gotten
better the last four quarters for most
of the public companies it's gotten
better over the last quarter and a half
for some folks it may be the last 45
days but it's let's not bet on it let's
not bet on it getting worse
um so quickly I I'll take one extra
minute but I don't want to go over more
than that this is the meta question is
in this efficient world how good will
growth be and what you can see if you
look I briefly put together atlassian
Monday data dog and HubSpot
I mean these are HubSpot at 2 billion
that lasting at three data dog at two
they're all growing at still incredible
rates but there is some deceleration
from last year so what is the bar what
is very good growth we're not again
we're not back to the the good good
times the leaders are mostly growing
slower than they were but they're
growing more efficiently and the growth
is still there it's still real
um so yeah just two quick things I want
to summarize this efficiency if you look
at the slide on the left
um look at how much more efficient toast
minus 19 ebitda plus six Monday which
talked about minus 16 to 26 snowflake
doubled it's it's free cash flow
minus 13 to plus 19 in a little bit more
than a year HubSpot 9 to 14. everyone
has gotten much much much more fitter
this will be a fundamental change to how
we think and build startups so for me
I'm going to finish on this and then
we'll we'll bring Jack Altman out your
real job to Founders I say this it's a
kick in the ass but it's the freaking
truth if you've looked at this data your
job is to do better than last year okay
it your your customers are not doing
worse than they were two or three
quarters ago it is not worse it is not
harder to sell sales automation tools or
sales analytics or marketing analytics
or customer success tools pick yourself
up the friggin ground and do better than
last year I'm not saying you should go
from 10 growth to 180 growth in one year
challenge yourself next quarter in each
of these next quarters to do better than
the last quarter and to do better than
12 months ago there's no excuse it is
not worse it is better it may be a
smidge better it may be a lot better it
may be barely better but do better and
maybe part ways with a few folks that
don't believe it that don't see it that
don't have the confidence they can't see
the future that helps too so move on
from the underperformers and challenge
yourself that there's no excuse to not
grow faster as a startup than last
quarter and last year we're lapping I
think the toughest times for many folks
um and how much to do better I don't
know but if you're not doing better
challenge yourself everyone can do
better than 12 months ago so thanks
everybody really appreciate everything
[Applause]